README.md, before:

Linear Congruential Generator
===
[![NPM version][npm-image]][npm-url] [![Build Status][travis-image]][travis-url] [![Coverage Status][coveralls-image]][coveralls-url] [![Dependencies][dependencies-image]][dependencies-url]

> A linear congruential pseudorandom number generator (lcg). 


## Installation

``` bash
$ npm install compute-lcg
```
For use in the browser, use [browserify](https://github.com/substack/node-browserify).


## Usage

To use the module,

``` javascript
var lcg = require( 'compute-lcg' );
```


#### lcg( [seed] )

Returns a pseudorandom number generator.

``` javascript
var rand = lcg();
```

To seed the generator, provide a `numeric` seed

``` javascript
var rand = lcg( 1234 );
```

#### rand( [n] )

Returns a pseudorandom floating-point `number` between `0` and `1`.

``` javascript
var val = rand();
```

If provided a length `n`, the method returns an `array` of pseudorandom numbers.

``` javascript
var arr = rand( 10 );
// returns [...]
```


## Notes

For a general lcg reference, see [Wikipedia](#ref-wikipedia). Linear congruential generators use the following recurrence relation:

<pre>
X_{n+1} = ( a*X_n + c ) mod m
</pre>

In this implementation, the constants `a`, `c`, and `m` have the following values: 

<pre>
a = 16807
c = 0
m = 2^31 - 1 => 2147483647
</pre>

The values for `a`, `c`, and `m` are taken from Park and Miller, ["Random Number Generators: Good Ones Are Hard To Find"](#ref-park-miller). Park's and Miller's article is also the basis for a recipe in the second edition of [_Numerical Recipes in C_](#ref-numerical-recipes-1). For the most part, this implementation follows [_Numerical Recipes_](#ref-numerical-recipes-1).  


### Period

The generator has a period of approximately 2.1e9 [[4]](#ref-numerical-recipes-2). 




## Examples

``` javascript
var lcg = require( 'compute-lcg' );

// Create a new (unseeded) generator:
var rand = lcg();

// Generate some pseudorandom numbers...
for ( var i = 0; i < 10; i++ ) {
	console.log( rand() );
}

// Create a new (seeded) generator:
rand = lcg( 1 );
for ( var j = 0; j < 10; j++ ) {
	console.log( rand() );
}

// Create a new generator seeded with the same seed as the previous generator:
rand = lcg( 1 );
console.log( rand( 10 ).join( '\n' ) );
```

To run the example code from the top-level application directory,

``` bash
$ node ./examples/index.js
```


## Tests

### Unit

Unit tests use the [Mocha](http://mochajs.org/) test framework with [Chai](http://chaijs.com) assertions. To run the tests, execute the following command in the top-level application directory:

``` bash
$ make test
```

All new feature development should have corresponding unit tests to validate correct functionality.


### Test Coverage

This repository uses [Istanbul](https://github.com/gotwarlost/istanbul) as its code coverage tool. To generate a test coverage report, execute the following command in the top-level application directory:

``` bash
$ make test-cov
```

Istanbul creates a `./reports/coverage` directory. To access an HTML version of the report,

``` bash
$ make view-cov
```

#### Test Notes

Test data generated from the C code published in [_Numerical Recipes_](#ref-numerical-recipes-1).


## References

<a name="ref-wikipedia"></a>
1. Wikipedia. [Linear Congruential Generator](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Linear_ congruential_ generator)

<a name="ref-park-miller"></a>
2. S.K. Park and K.W. Miller (1988). "Random Number Generators: Good Ones Are Hard To Find". Communications of the ACM 31 (10): 1192-1201.

<a name="ref-numerical-recipes-1"></a>
3. William H. Press, et. al., _Numerical Recipes in C: The Art of Scientific Computing_, Section 7.1 "Uniform Deviates" (2d ed. 1992) (hereinafter _Numerical Recipes_).  

<a name="ref-numerical-recipes-2"></a>
4. _Numerical Recipes_, p. 279.


## License

[MIT license](http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT). 

---
## Copyright

Copyright &copy; 2014. rgizz.


[npm-image]: http://img.shields.io/npm/v/compute-lcg.svg
[npm-url]: https://npmjs.org/package/compute-lcg

[travis-image]: http://img.shields.io/travis/compute-io/lcg/master.svg
[travis-url]: https://travis-ci.org/compute-io/lcg

[coveralls-image]: https://img.shields.io/coveralls/compute-io/lcg/master.svg
[coveralls-url]: https://coveralls.io/r/compute-io/lcg?branch=master

[dependencies-image]: http://img.shields.io/david/compute-io/lcg.svg
[dependencies-url]: https://david-dm.org/compute-io/lcg

[dev-dependencies-image]: http://img.shields.io/david/dev/compute-io/lcg.svg
[dev-dependencies-url]: https://david-dm.org/dev/compute-io/lcg

[github-issues-image]: http://img.shields.io/github/issues/compute-io/lcg.svg
[github-issues-url]: https://github.com/compute-io/lcg/issues

Commit message:

Add 'When To Use' section.

README.md, after:

Linear Congruential Generator
===
[![NPM version][npm-image]][npm-url] [![Build Status][travis-image]][travis-url] [![Coverage Status][coveralls-image]][coveralls-url] [![Dependencies][dependencies-image]][dependencies-url]

> A linear congruential pseudorandom number generator (lcg). 


## Installation

``` bash
$ npm install compute-lcg
```
For use in the browser, use [browserify](https://github.com/substack/node-browserify).

## Usage

To use the module,

``` javascript
var lcg = require( 'compute-lcg' );
```


#### lcg( [seed] )

Returns a pseudorandom number generator.

``` javascript
var rand = lcg();
```

To seed the generator, provide a `numeric` seed

``` javascript
var rand = lcg( 1234 );
```

#### rand( [n] )

Returns a pseudorandom floating-point `number` between `0` and `1`.

``` javascript
var val = rand();
```

If provided a length `n`, the method returns an `array` of pseudorandom numbers.

``` javascript
var arr = rand( 10 );
// returns [...]
```


## Notes

For a general lcg reference, see [Wikipedia](#ref-wikipedia). Linear congruential generators use the following recurrence relation:

<pre>
X_{n+1} = ( a*X_n + c ) mod m
</pre>

In this implementation, the constants `a`, `c`, and `m` have the following values: 

<pre>
a = 16807
c = 0
m = 2^31 - 1 => 2147483647
</pre>

The values for `a`, `c`, and `m` are taken from Park and Miller, ["Random Number Generators: Good Ones Are Hard To Find"](#ref-park-miller). Park's and Miller's article is also the basis for a recipe in the second edition of [_Numerical Recipes in C_](#ref-numerical-recipes-1). For the most part, this implementation follows [_Numerical Recipes_](#ref-numerical-recipes-1).  


### Period

The generator has a period of approximately 2.1e9 [[4]](#ref-numerical-recipes-2). 

### When To Use

Some judgment is required in determining when to use lcg.  On the one hand, lcg is fast and uses little memory.  On the other hand, because it is a simple linear congruential generator it has recognized shortcomings. By today's PRNG standards, its period, on the order of 2e9, is relatively short.  More importantly, the "randomness quality" of its output is not of the best quality.  These defects rule it out, for example, in Monte Carlo simulations and in cryptographic applications.  For a more extended discussion of the advantages and disadvantages of LCGs see [[5]](#ref-wikipedia-2).



## Examples

``` javascript
var lcg = require( 'compute-lcg' );

// Create a new (unseeded) generator:
var rand = lcg();

// Generate some pseudorandom numbers...
for ( var i = 0; i < 10; i++ ) {
	console.log( rand() );
}

// Create a new (seeded) generator:
rand = lcg( 1 );
for ( var j = 0; j < 10; j++ ) {
	console.log( rand() );
}

// Create a new generator seeded with the same seed as the previous generator:
rand = lcg( 1 );
console.log( rand( 10 ).join( '\n' ) );
```

To run the example code from the top-level application directory,

``` bash
$ node ./examples/index.js
```


## Tests

### Unit

Unit tests use the [Mocha](http://mochajs.org/) test framework with [Chai](http://chaijs.com) assertions. To run the tests, execute the following command in the top-level application directory:

``` bash
$ make test
```

All new feature development should have corresponding unit tests to validate correct functionality.


### Test Coverage

This repository uses [Istanbul](https://github.com/gotwarlost/istanbul) as its code coverage tool. To generate a test coverage report, execute the following command in the top-level application directory:

``` bash
$ make test-cov
```

Istanbul creates a `./reports/coverage` directory. To access an HTML version of the report,

``` bash
$ make view-cov
```

#### Test Notes

Test data generated from the C code published in [_Numerical Recipes_](#ref-numerical-recipes-1).


## References

<a name="ref-wikipedia-1"></a>
1. Wikipedia. [Linear Congruential Generator](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Linear_ congruential_ generator)

<a name="ref-park-miller"></a>
2. S.K. Park and K.W. Miller (1988). "Random Number Generators: Good Ones Are Hard To Find". Communications of the ACM 31 (10): 1192-1201.

<a name="ref-numerical-recipes-1"></a>
3. William H. Press, et. al., _Numerical Recipes in C: The Art of Scientific Computing_, Section 7.1 "Uniform Deviates" (2d ed. 1992) (hereinafter _Numerical Recipes_).  

<a name="ref-numerical-recipes-2"></a>
4. _Numerical Recipes_, p. 279.

<a name="ref-wikipedia-2"</a>
5. Wikipedia. [Linear Congruential Generator](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Linear_congruential_generator#Advantages_and_disadvantages_of_LCGs).

## License

[MIT license](http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT). 

---
## Copyright

Copyright &copy; 2014. rgizz.


[npm-image]: http://img.shields.io/npm/v/compute-lcg.svg
[npm-url]: https://npmjs.org/package/compute-lcg

[travis-image]: http://img.shields.io/travis/compute-io/lcg/master.svg
[travis-url]: https://travis-ci.org/compute-io/lcg

[coveralls-image]: https://img.shields.io/coveralls/compute-io/lcg/master.svg
[coveralls-url]: https://coveralls.io/r/compute-io/lcg?branch=master

[dependencies-image]: http://img.shields.io/david/compute-io/lcg.svg
[dependencies-url]: https://david-dm.org/compute-io/lcg

[dev-dependencies-image]: http://img.shields.io/david/dev/compute-io/lcg.svg
[dev-dependencies-url]: https://david-dm.org/dev/compute-io/lcg

[github-issues-image]: http://img.shields.io/github/issues/compute-io/lcg.svg
[github-issues-url]: https://github.com/compute-io/lcg/issues
